To : Debian Bug Tracking System <submit@bugs.debian.org>
Subject : Bug#900874: O: schroot -- Execute commands in a chroot environment
From : Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Date : Wed, 06 Jun 2018 11:41:52 +0200
Message-id : 152827811267.30276.548018443340360727.reportbug@x260-buxy.home.ouaza.com
Reply-to : Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>, 900874@bugs.debian.org


Package: wnpp
Severity: normal
I just orphaned the schroot package. I never really want to assume its
maintainance but it just happened that at some point I was unhappy with
unresolved bugs with pending patches and someone had to step in and I did.
Now this package is still an important building block of our build
infrastructure and it deserves a better maintainer than me (my last upload
dates back to one year ago).
The upstream maintainer (Roger Leigh) is still around and reachable
although he's not doing much work on schroot AFAIK.
The package is in Salsa in the debian group so all DD can easily
contribute to its maintainance:
https://salsa.debian.org/debian/schroot
The package description is:
 schroot allows users to execute commands or interactive shells in
 different chroots.  Any number of named chroots may be created, and
 access permissions given to each, including root access for normal
 users, on a per-user or per-group basis.  Additionally, schroot can
 switch to a different user in the chroot, using PAM for
 authentication and authorisation.  All operations are logged for
 security.
 .
 Several different types of chroot are supported, including normal
 directories in the filesystem, and also block devices.  Sessions,
 persistent chroots created on the fly from files (tar with optional
 compression) and Btrfs and LVM snapshots are also supported.
 .
 schroot supports kernel personalities, allowing the programs run
 inside the chroot to have a different personality.  For example,
 running 32-bit chroots on 64-bit systems, or even running binaries
 from alternative operating systems such as SVR4 or Xenix.
 .
 schroot also integrates with sbuild, to allow building packages with
 all supported chroot types, including session-managed chroot types
 such as Btrfs and LVM snapshots.
 .
 schroot shares most of its options with dchroot, but offers vastly
 more functionality.