To : Debian Devel <debian-devel@lists.debian.org>
Subject : Re: Should the weboob package stay in Debian?
From : Marc Dequènes (duck) <duck@duckcorp.org>
Date : Sun, 22 Jul 2018 09:39:51 +0900
Message-id : 2821064bd81a0eee4eddef1a30f0f776@duckcorp.org
Reply-to : duck@duckcorp.org
In-reply-to : <[🔎] ff0ec5525f82c895b6f8f1fe7415b27c@duckcorp.org>
References : <[🔎] ff0ec5525f82c895b6f8f1fe7415b27c@duckcorp.org>


Quack,
It seems the project is leaving the decision about Weboob onto me, so 
I'll try to address it.
The diversity statement tells me we should welcome others even if they 
are very different and with conflicting opinions but nothing beyond 
that. There is no policy part that I found helpful.
I discarded heated reaction from the thread of discussion to isolate the 
most constructive remarks.
We've been able to draft guidelines about what we consider not 
acceptable at events and called this "code of conduct". This does not 
need to be universal but in our community we were able to agree on some 
criteria and I think this is making our world better. I don't think we 
should write an infinite list of rules but guidelines based on 
non-emotional objective points to consider.
There was part of the discussion about the intent of these upstream 
authors, but we're not mind reader and in the end the impact on people, 
and solving this if we can, is more important than judging people.
I've also excluded any consideration about the usefulness of this 
software. As long as one single DD is willing to maintain a software it 
is fine being in according to the policy. Also being very useful does 
not grant any special allowance to be nasty.
There was an insult targeting homosexuals, but a contributor proposed a 
fix and upstream accepted it without discussion. It should not have been 
there in the first place though.
As for the "boob" part, it is puerile, very bad taste, disturbing that 
people could be so obsessed as to name their software like this, but 
there's no message at all so it cannot be insulting.
  « It is an emotion felt by a person whose social status, either by 
force or willingly, has just decreased.[1] It can be brought about 
through intimidation, physical or mental mistreatment or trickery, or by 
embarrassment »
  In our case there is no misrepresentation of persons or anything 
implied from the focus on this specific anatomic part.
  it is clearly objectifying women as a source of sexual attraction. 
There is no message, so no one is trying to sell you cars or manipulate 
you in any way with it though.
  Interestingly the allegory of dignity by Cesare Ripa is quite 
evocative. and a huge amount of what we consider art is often 
emphasizing on the woman's beauty in more or less suggestive ways.
  Weboob is clearly not very subtle about it, but I'm pretty sure other 
representations also make some of us feel uncomfortable.
  Also this representation does not target specific persons and is not 
representing women as weak or submissive.
  « These are acts that, even if done by consent, convey a message that 
diminishes the importance or value of all human beings. »
  This does no apply here as there is no depiction of act or even any 
message.
  « These are acts that strip a person or a group of their human 
characteristics. It may involve describing or treating them as animals 
or as a lower type of human beings. »
  Apart from objectification already discussed, there is no implication 
that woman are only good for sex or any such message.
  Maybe some of the Weboob authors do not think highly of woman but 
we're discussing the package content and not judging people's thoughts 
(which we cannot be sure to know anyway).
So apart from objectification of women, but without instrumentalization 
or degrading message, I was not able to find serious consequences. As 
much as I would prefer things to be different (I already told upstream 
in the past) I don't feel I have any right or special wisdom allowing me 
to dictate people to act and think differently. Banning content because 
it displease me and make people uncomfortable while no direct harm has 
been found is unlikely to have a positive effect. Consequently unless 
harmful content I'm not aware of is discovered in this package I am not 
going to remove it from the archive. I would consider adding a neutral 
warning message in the package description though, so people can 
individually decide for themselves if this is acceptable from their own 
point of view.
I'll be coming at DebConf this year. Feel free to come and discuss it 
with me.
\_o<
--
Marc Dequènes