To : debian-boot@lists.debian.org
Subject : Get Back to me as soon as possible.
From : "Mr. Bernard Otti" <benoti483@gmail.com>
Date : Mon, 17 Sep 2018 17:57:54 +0100
Message-id : CAFRqLpnrgW++CnYm5e7+yu9kbjT8FBxhY0YdGYvE--WnPm42wQ@mail.gmail.com


Attn:
Good day to you and your family. I apologise if the content here under
are contrary to your moral ethics but please treat with absolute
secrecy and personal. My name is Engr.Dr.Ahmad Mualla from Damascus
Syria. I am a retired government official and was former personal
investor & financial consultant adviser to some top politicians in
Syria, also an oil tycoon from Syria and Saudi Arabia. Al Furat
Petroleum Company (AFPC) the leader in the region in Reservoir
Management AFPC was established under Service Contract no.210 ratified
by Law no. 43 of 1977 and named as per decree-law no.12 in
1985.
AFPC is a joint venture company between the General Petroleum
Corporation (50%) and private shareholders of Syria Shell Petroleum
Development ( SSPD ) etc. I have plan to relocate my investment
planning to your beautiful country, out of Syria, Now that Syria
security and our Economic independent has been lost to the greatest
lower level, and our culture has been lost forever and our happiness
has been taken away from us.
I will like to relocate my family out from Syria. Here in my country
there is fire on the mountain and I need a foreign partner to enable
me transport my investment capital and then relocate with my
family.Honestly I wish you and I will discuss more and get along.
I need a partner because I don't have any bank account outside Syria.I
am interested in buying properties; houses, Building real estate and
some tourist places. I will appreciate your ideas and knowledge
regarding this or any other profitable investment you may suggest.On
my next email I will explain to you the full details of this
investment.
I shall tell you more about myself and my family on my next email upon
your response, you may as well tell me little more about yourself.
I'm waiting for your good responds.
Thanks
Engr.Dr.Ahmad Mualla
Damascus Syria