To : debian-devel@lists.debian.org
Subject : Re: Limiting the power of packages
From : Simon Richter <sjr@debian.org>
Date : Thu, 4 Oct 2018 21:10:47 +0200
Message-id : 20181004191047.GA32219@psi5.com
In-reply-to : <[🔎] 20181003171917.GB2043@exolobe1.liw.fi>
References : <[🔎] 20181003171917.GB2043@exolobe1.liw.fi>


Hi,
> A suggestion: we restrict where packages can install files and what
> maintainer scripts can do. The default should be as safe as we can
> make it, and packages that need to do things not allowed by the
> default should declare they that they intend to do that.
I've held a short inflammatory lightning talk at DebConf9 in Cáceres about
that, comparing dpkg against Microsoft Installer. :)
MSI solves this quite nicely: packages are collections of relational
database tables, each table provides the parameters for an action, and the
actions themselves are defined by the core installer (with a plugin
interface for custom actions, which noone uses).
This means that any package that doesn't use any plugins can be evaluated
externally by looking at the table data, and Small Business Server includes
a tool to statically check packages for conflicts.
We could bring the same to dpkg by moving things out of maintainer scripts
and into control files. The big items would be
 - alternatives
 - diversions
 - statoverride
 - service start/stop
If we had control files for these, a lot of maintainer scripts would simply
be empty, especially in the base system that would be really helpful for
"debootstrap --foreign", where the host system could run the actions in the
newly installed system even if the architecture does not match, and we
could avoid running services in freshly installed chroots as well.
Smaller items:
 - ldconfig could be a control file as well -- if it's present, we need to
   run ldconfig.
We already have a solution for that with file-based triggers, but this
would be also be more transparent for "debootstrap --foreign".
 - Moving files into new locations would need a table
    old version; new version; old location; new location
When upgrading from a version between the old and new versions, the files
need to be moved (this would catch preinst for move, and postinst for
aborted-upgrade).
 - Updates from debconf to files in /etc/default
This requires some more thought than I can provide at this late hour.
 - Installation of new APT sources and keys
Having the information as descriptive data will allow filtering and adding
constraints during source/key installation, e.g. by keeping keys installed
through this mechanism associated with the source installed in the same
package, and having packages from the source inherit constraints from the
package that provided the source.
Ideally, maintainer scripts would be a last-resort option if none of the
existing descriptive mechanisms works.
Packages using these control files would obviously require a dpkg version
that supports them, and we'd also need a mechanism for adding new control
files over time.
The main difficulty I see is keeping compatibility for upgrades, so stable
dpkg can still install packages from unstable. My proposal would be that
packages start using "_alternatives" first (which dpkg knows to ignore if
it doesn't understand it, it's almost as if someone knew what they were
doing back then) together with a maintainer script that makes the
alternatives handling conditional on the return code of a query command
that checks if dpkg handles the control file internally. Then, a few years
later, we transition to "alternatives" as a control file, and no maintainer
script. Most packages would probably use dh_alternatives for that anyway.
   Simon