To : "apache2" <apache2@packages.debian.org>
Subject : Barcelona Dance Award, event for Dance Schools and Groups, any division and any level welcome. All web info on: barcelonadance .org
From : "Dance Competition 2018 in Barcelona" <dancerope@katamail.com>
Date : Sun, 4 Jun 2017 01:54:11 +0200
Message-id : 2DEE612EF7D04AF0B0B84CDC5783C2A2.MAI@sashx.org


Call for Everybody,
Dance Schools, Groups & College, is inviting participants, directors, choreographers, dancers, performing arts 
educators, teachers, arts managers and dance theatre lovers.
Barcelona Dance Award, from 29 march to 02 APRIL 2018. 
World Championship Competition for Dance Schools, Companies and Groups from all over the World. 
4 days of Balet, Contemporary, Modern, Hip Hop and each other kind of choreo art, DanceTeam Showcases & International 
performances competitions.
By participating in our events you will perform in Theaters specialized in choreo activities, with all the prerequisites 
for your artistic success.
All the theaters, which will host the contest, have spacious dressing rooms with mirrors, with dancebars, practice rooms and 
warming up spaces before the performances.
On the acting area there will be professional light and audio systems, support technicians and qualified personnel, 
curtains, dancecarpet, wings, greed, black box, cyclorama backdrops and large spaces for your performances, 
this is the right ways to improve the professional choreografic arts!
Here all the details regarding dancefloor: stage totally flat; dimensions =13 mts (frontage) X 11 mts (depth); 
4 wings per side; backstage passage side to side; both stage sides (right & left) can be used to get in and out.
The dancers loved the great technical of Spanish Theatres, a perfect situation to plan your performances in Barcelona!
all web info on: 
barcelonadance .org
..in order to be the protagonist of a European Dance Tournée Competition! 
Mail the office, space is limited, so Directors should act right away.
This is a really "gorgeus" opportunity for dancers, teachers, and parents to find out how to participate. 
If interested, give us your e.mail contact to discuss any questions you may have. Please send to the organizer email:  
barcelonadanceaward@katamail.com
Warm regards
If you fell you have received this e-mail by error and wish to be cancelled from future mailings, 
simply write NO MORE in the subject line and send to <barcelonadanceaward@katamail.com>