To : Debian Bug Tracking System <submit@bugs.debian.org>
Subject : Bug#911342: ITP: cpdb-backend-gcp -- Common Print Dialog Backends - Google Cloud Print Backend
From : Till Kamppeter <till.kamppeter@gmail.com>
Date : Thu, 18 Oct 2018 22:15:14 +0200
Message-id : 153989371450.10053.5974285638701968394.reportbug@till-x1yoga
Reply-to : Till Kamppeter <till.kamppeter@gmail.com>, 911342@bugs.debian.org


Package: wnpp
Severity: wishlist
Owner: Till Kamppeter <till.kamppeter@gmail.com>
* Package name    : cpdb-backend-gcp
  Version         : 1.1.0
  Upstream Author : Abhijeet Dubey <dubey.abhijeet09@gmail.com>
* URL             : https://github.com/OpenPrinting/cpdb-backend-gcp
* License         : MIT
  Programming Lang: C
  Description     : Common Print Dialog Backends - Google Cloud Print Backend
This package needs cpdb-libs, ITP here:
https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=911335
This is already packaged for Ubuntu. This is the long description of
the Ubuntu package:
 This is the Google Cloud Print backend for print dialogs using the
 Common Print Dialog Backends concept of OpenPrinting. It makes the
 dialog list the Google Cloud Print destinations set by the current
 user plus the option to drop the job as PDF on the Google Drive and
 allows printing on these using the dialog.
 .
 For a user to be able to use this facility he must set up his Google
 account in the "Online Accounts" section of GNOME Control Center.
The idea is to decouple the print dialog's GUI code (GTK, Qt,
LibreOffice, ... The frontends) from the code which communicates with
actual print technologies (CUPS, IPP, Google Cloud Print, Save to
File, ... The backends) to make them independently
interchangable. This way one can do things like
- Add a new print technology and it is immediately available for all
  GUI apps. Especially an online print service provider could simply
  put its backend into the Snap Store and asks his Linux users to
  install it.
- A change in a print technology, for example new functionality in
  CUPS, can be covered by simply updating the CUPS backend. No need to
  change all GUI libraries.
- User logs in for Google Cloud Print once and not separately for each
  GUI platform to get his cloud printers into all the apps.
- In case of a security bug in the communication code with one print
  technology only the backend needs to get fixed, not several GUI
  libs.
This package contains the backend for access the printers and the
Google Drive (to save as PDF) of the Google account of the current
user. It supplies information about the Google-registered printers,
their capabilities, and user-settable options and it passes print jobs
on to Google. The print dialogs (using cpdb-libs) connect to this
backend via D-Bus. To do so, it is enough to have this backend package
installed and each user who wants to use it, logged into his Google
account via Online Accounts.
For this to work at least one application with a print dialog using
cpdb-libs must be installed.
Of the GUIs LibreOffice already supports this system and only needs to
get rebuilt with this library. Patches for GTK and a modified Qt print
dialog are in the works.
All packages are already available as Ubuntu packages in Ubuntu's
Universe part. The maintenance in Debian should be done in the Debian
Printing Team.
I am not a Debian Developer but OdyX (Didier Raboud, odyx@debian.org)
is willing to upload these packages.