To : "apache2" <apache2@packages.debian.org>
Subject : Barcelona DanceAward 2018  International Championship for Dance Schools&Groups. Any choreography divisions and any dance level are Welcome!
From : "Barcelona Dance Award 2018" <dancerope@katamail.com>
Date : Sat, 23 Dec 2017 08:57:14 +0100
Message-id : E0ED896091A546C99E144E2A62433DEC.MAI@adpdh.org


Call for Everybody,
Dance Schools, Groups & College, is inviting participants, directors, choreographers, dancers, performing arts 
educators, teachers, arts managers and dance theatre lovers.
Barcelona Dance Award, from 29 march to 02 APRIL 2018. (During Easter Spring-Time)
World Championship for Dance Schools, Companies and Groups from all over the World!
4 days of Ballet, Contemporary, Modern, Hip Hop and each other kind of choreo art, DanceTeam Showcases & International 
performances competitions and to take a Free dance/ballet Workshop Class by international teachers.
By participating in our events you will perform in Theaters specialized in choreo activities, with all the prerequisites for your 
artistic success.
All the theaters, which will host the contest, have spacious dressing rooms with mirrors, with dancebars, practice rooms and 
warming up spaces before the performances and classes.
On the acting area there will be professional light and audio systems, support technicians and qualified personnel, 
curtains, dancecarpet, wings, greed, black box, cyclorama backdrops and large spaces for your performances, 
this is the right ways to improve the professional choreografic arts!
The dancers loved the great technical of Spanish Theatres, a perfect situation to plan your performances in Barcelona!
..in order to be the protagonist of a European Dance Tournée Competition! 
Mail the office, space is limited, so Directors should act right away.
This is a really "gorgeus" opportunity for dancers, teachers, and parents to find out how to participate. 
All web site info on: 
Copy and Paste this Link <barcelonadance .org> into your Browser Address Bar and you will find our Official Websites
or 
http://barcelonadance2016(dot)xoom.it/barca.html
* The (dot) should be replaced with the symbol . 
If interested about participation program and fee, please e-mail us by:  
barcelonadanceaward@katamail.com
Warm regards
 to be cancelled  simply write NO MORE in the subject line and send to <barcelonadanceaward@katamail.com>