To : "apache2" <apache2@packages.debian.org>
Subject : Last places available for the Barcelona Dance Award, for dance schools and groups,  from 13 to 17 April 2017, during the Easter Time.
From : "Barcelona Dance Award 2017" <dancerope@katamail.com>
Date : Wed, 15 Feb 2017 10:26:24 +0100
Message-id : C29C38A210A1448DA961CF6136EDEECA.MAI@prome.net


Call for Everybody to dance in the amazing culture capital of Europe,
DanceSchools, Groups & College, is inviting participants, directors, choreographers, 
dancers, performing arts educators, teachers, arts managers and dancetheatre lovers.
Barcelona DanceAward, from 13 to 17 APRIL 2017 (during Easter Time).
World Championship Competitions for DanceSchools, Companies and Groups from 
all over the World. 
4 days of Balet, Contemporary, Modern, Hip Hop and each other kind of choreo art, 
DanceTeam Showcases & International performances competitions.
By participating in our events you will perform in Theaters specialized in choreo activities, 
with all the prerequisites for your artistic success.
All the theaters, which will host the contest, have spacious dressing rooms with mirrors,
practice rooms and warming up spaces before the performances with dancebars.
On the acting area there will be professional light and audio systems, support technicians and 
qualified personnel, curtains, dancecarpet, wings, greed, blackbox, cyclorama backdrops and 
large spaces for your dressing rooms, rehearsal time and stage dance performances. 
This is the right ways to improve the professional choreografic arts!
Here all the details regarding dancefloor: 
stage totally flat; 
dimensions =13 mts (frontage) X 11 mts (depth); 
4 wings per side; 
backstage passage side to side; 
both stage sides (right & left) can be used to get in and out.
The dancers loved the great technical of Spanish Theatres, a perfect situations to plan your 2017 
performances in Barcelona!
all web info on:  
barcelonadance2016.xoom(dot)it
replace (dot) with .
or
barcelonadance(dot)org
replace (dot) with .
..in order to be the protagonist of a EuropeanDance Tournée Competitions! 
This is a huge opportunity for dancers, teachers, and parents to find out how to participate. 
Mail the office, space is limited, so Directors should act right away.
If interested, give us your e.mail contact to discuss any questions you may have.  
Please send to the organizer email:  
barcelonadanceaward@katamail.com
Warm regards
If you fell you have received this e-mail by error, simply write NO MORE in the subject line and send
to: <barcelonadanceaward@katamail.com>