To : debian-cloud@lists.debian.org
Subject : Summary of the Cloud Team BoF at DC17
From : Steve McIntyre <steve@einval.com>
Date : Fri, 29 Sep 2017 07:22:15 +0100
Message-id : 20170929062215.w5rjv7dg7kmtgesz@tack.einval.com
Reply-to : debian-cloud@lists.debian.org


[ Please note the cross-post and Reply-To ]
Hi folks,
As promised, here's my summary of what was discussed at the Cloud Team
BoF session in Montréal. Apologies for the delay in posting - life's
hectic atm. Please correct the following if you think I've made
mistakes!
Thanks to the awesome efforts of our video team, the session is
already online [1]. I've taken a copy of the Gobby notes too,
alongside my small set of slides for the session. [2]
Status update
-------------
We had an excellent sprint in November last year, and lots of planning
happened for Debian cloud images. We've made some progress on those
plans since, but not as much as we'd hoped.
At the sprint, we agreed to work on using FAI to make all of our image
types, but we're not there yet:
 * AWS: Noah and Marcin have made progress using FAI. kuLa is working
   on builds for AWS and GCP on casulana.
 * GCE builds are still using the bootstrap-vz tooling, just updated
   for Stretch.
 * Azure builds are still using openstack-debian-images, updated to
   Stretch.
 * Openstack is also using openstack-debian-images (same as for wheezy
   & jessie). We now have arm64 images too, after work from Steve.
 * Vagrant images: Emmanuel is working on using FAI, will push to the
   same git repo as others are using.
 * We *did* have some GCE images building at the sprint using FAI, but
   apparently bootable Stretch images don't work atm. Work needed...
Accounts
--------
Individual access to Azure for building and testing is easy - mail
Steve Z to get a subscription which comes with some free Azure cloud
time.
We've currently got separated accounts and credentials across the
various cloud platforms. DSA (Luca) is looking into setting up a more
integrated approach, using SAML/LDAP/$stuff with Debian-controlled
credentials rather than depending on specific platform features. See
the DSA BoF discussion for more details. Still more work to happen
here yet. Marcin is keen to help with this on the cloud team side.
Tests
-----
At the sprint, we came up with an initial set of tests that we'd want
to use for our images. We need to make progress on that work, to help
us validate changes like the agreed move to FAI-based tooling.
Tomasz has volunteered (yay!) to drive the test suite work for our
images, and has some work already done that he can use as the base for
this.
What exactly are the current cloud providers testing, and how? Steve Z
listed some tests on Azure, all up on github
(https://github.com/Azure/azure-linux-automation):
 * BVT (test the image runs and config is correct)
 * network performance & infiniband
 * GPU
 etc.
They depend on the Azure tools to run things. Could maybe open up the
CI automation to run on official Debian images, to make sure they're
equivalent to what's produced today.
There's relevant work from a startup doing cloud image comparisons too:
  https://github.com/cloudscreener/debian-image-tester
Google have a full test suite too, for at least:
 * platform integration
 * metadata interaction
 * image configuration
 * upcoming infrastructure changes
Jimmy said that yhey depend on Google infrastructure, so may not be
all that helpful for external people.
Thomas Goirand suggested that we need sponsored hardware to run an
OpenStack one time deployement, and test images on that. The test
suite and scenarios (tempest), install scripts (openstack-deploy
package) are all in Debian (Stretch included) already.
So, we want to get tests running against the images that we produce so
that we can have some reasonable QA on our official images. If builds
fail, we will not publish them. We should be adding more tests,
especially to pick up on regressions. Future sprint work should
involve defining and implementing tests.
Building
--------
We'd agreed to build on central Debian-controlled machines and
publishing them out, but there's been some push-back on that. More
discussion on that point.
 * Once we move to using FAI for all the images, should we do all of
   them on Debian machines?
 * Some people are OK using cloud-hosted machines to build on.
The current box for central image builds is pettersson hosted by Umeå
University in Sweden, but we're going to be moving to a new, bigger
machine (casulana) hosted at Bytemark in the UK. We'll still be
pushing the images back to the distribution network set up in Umeå,
though. That should not be an issue - networking is good between the
sites. We might even set up another site for publishing to get
redundancy, but it's not a priority right now.
We *don't* currently have machines available near the build box for
bare-metal testing but maybe we might in future.
The Vagrant folks want to be doing their builds on the same
infrastructure, which will also allow them to expand the range of
images they make. They want to be doing CI and automated build and
uploads.
We want to test using FAI to make images for all the platforms, and
debug any problems we find. Zach tried it for GCE Stretch and got
images that didn't boot. We clearly need to debug that. If we can get
everything working, we should be committing to using FAI for all the
builds, as initially agreed.
Moving to the big central machine (casulana) should enable us to get a
much better CI process for all our builds, with automated testing and
publishing. We should be building in temporary VMs (one for each
build, created on demand). We should have a set of tools to create VMs
and run the build there. We do *not* want to build on the bare
hardware because we don't run processes as root on the bare
hardware. Also need something generic so we can run the same process
(build VM, run in VM, etc.) on local machines as well as on casulana
to help with development and testing. The existing persistent VMs on
pettersson for live and openstack builds shouldn't really be pushed
any further. We will need to look into tools for making new VMs.
Package updates
---------------
The release team are of course happy for us to get things updated in
stable, modulo sanity. We just need to do the work and show them sane
patches for review, just like any other proposed updates.
We don't need to (necessarily) be using toolchains that are packaged
in stable, of course. Newer versions of FAI, debian-cd etc. running
from git are expected and OK for day-to-day building.
Docker images
-------------
We still haven't had any contact with the people (Tiago and ???)
providing "Debian" Docker images. We should! Can we invite them to the
next cloud team sprint?
cloud-init
----------
We spoke about this a lot last year - maybe even forking it to get a
load of patches integrated. What happened on that front? We're still
not really tracking the ubuntu upstream at the moment. Do we still
want to follow them as upstream? We were worried about lack of
progress, but upstream seem to have improved. They have been making
more regular releases.
We still need to check on the status of the changes we were wanting.
Cloud-init sprint at the end of August at Google in Seattle - anybody
going? Please make sure we're involved. We're all worried about lack
of cross-distro support!
Next sprint
-----------
As the last cloud sprint (at Google) worked so well, we're planning
another one for this year. Steve Z is already organising for Microsoft
to host, Mon 16 to Wed 18 October at the Azure offices in Redmond. [3]
We'll also be online too so remote people can join in.
The plan for the sprint this year is to spend more time implementing
the plans that we came up with last year.
Image locator
-------------
One more item we discussed at the sprint last year was an image
locator tool to help users find the right image for their
needs. Martin Behrends(sp?) has already started work on that (yay!)
and has a prototype. We could also add our other images - live,
installer, etc.
TODO
----
 * Test the result image of the Azure patch merge inside current
   version of openstack-debian-images (ie: finish the merge)
 * Test if the OpenStack image works on AWS (no reason it wouldn't)
[1] http://meetings-archive.debian.net/pub/debian-meetings/2017/debconf17/debian-cloud-bof.vp8.webm
[2] https://www.einval.com/~steve/talks/Debconf17-cloud-team-BoF/
[3] https://wiki.debian.org/Sprints/2017/DebianCloudOct2017
-- 
Steve McIntyre, Cambridge, UK.                                steve@einval.com
Into the distance, a ribbon of black
Stretched to the point of no turning back
signature.asc