To : Debian Developers <debian-devel@lists.debian.org>
Subject : Updated  proposal for improving the FTP NEW process
From : Gert Wollny <gw.fossdev@gmail.com>
Date : Mon, 05 Mar 2018 12:18:38 +0100
Message-id : 1520248718.29289.53.camel@gmail.com
In-reply-to : <[🔎] 1519992057.4858.59.camel@gmail.com>
References : <[🔎] 1519992057.4858.59.camel@gmail.com>


Dear all, 
thanks for all the feedback, based on this I'd like to modify the
proposal like follows: 
(1) Given that all new source package come with an ITP bug, when a
package must be rejected, the FTP team could CC this bug in the
rejection message. This would have the advantage that for everyone
interested in the package the information why the package was rejected
can easily be found. In addition, For large packages, where a review
takes more than one day, the reviewer could send messages to the ITP
about problems the moment they are found, so maintainers could start to
work on correcting the errors earlier.
(2) To improve the initial quality of uploads to NEW I also propose the
introduction a (voluntary) review step: Someone who is interested in
getting additional reviews to a package before uploading it to NEW
could file a "Request for review" (RFR) bug against wnpp. Then those
who are willing to review packages can step in and also have a common
place to comment on problems of the package that need fixing. When
someone satisfied with the package they add a comment to the bug
"Reviewed-By: name <email>", and when doing the actual upload, the
maintainer replicates these R-B messages in the changelog closing the
RFR bug. For large packages one might also add a comment "subir/module
X Reviewed-By: ..." to indicate only a partial review.
This R-B- information could also be added to that persons QA page under
a new section "Reviewed Uploads".
In a way this replicates what sponsors do for uploads of non-DDs, but
especially for large packages a second pair of eyes is always helpful.
--
Implementing the first point is essentially up the the FTP team. 
For the second point some formalization would be required and made
public, for this I'd volunteer. Adding reviewed-by information to the
developers QA page would require that someone steps in who is knowledge
able in how these pages are created. In any case, this is only a "nice
to have" thingy.
any comments are welcome,
Gert