To : Didier 'OdyX' Raboud <odyx@debian.org>
Subject : Re: What can Debian do to provide complex applications to its users?
From : Ian Jackson <ijackson@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Date : Thu, 1 Mar 2018 11:48:09 +0000
Message-id : 23191.59513.423314.847408@chiark.greenend.org.uk
In-reply-to : <[🔎] 11021748.sr2Nt2CYEd@odyx.org>
References : <151879250395.15777.11687709733947019960.reportbug@x260-buxy.home.ouaza.com>	<1747528.3EBMEs4rXA@odyx.org>	<23189.25024.401726.386741@chiark.greenend.org.uk>	<[🔎] 11021748.sr2Nt2CYEd@odyx.org>


Didier 'OdyX' Raboud writes ("Re: What can Debian do to provide complex applications to its users?"):
> Le mardi, 27 février 2018, 14.48:48 h CET Ian Jackson a écrit :
> > Instead, establish a formal convention about embedding the (stable
> > part of) the version number in the package name.  This is important
> > so that it is possible to replace a specific "version" of one of these
> > packages with a modified package which is the "same version".
> 
> Good point: not all versions are desirable; "majors" can be installed in 
> parallel, "minors" are updates to the formers.
> 
> But, assuming a new binary format, it feels really weak to abuse of the 
> package name to embed a version.  (The filename is a different question). What 
> about (in control.tar's control):
> 
> Package: simplejson
> Version-Unique: 3.13
> Version: 3.13.2-1
Almost everything else in your message I agree with, or at least,
think is arguable, or a matter of detail.  This, and your next
suggestion, however, I think would be serious mistakes.
I think for the success of your enterprise you need to make at least
your .vdebs processable by the existing tools.  That means not
changing the binary format in an incompatible way.  Otherwise you are
addding "change every tool in the world which tries to process a .deb"
to your todo list.
As for the details:
The "abuse" of which you speak is already done routinely in Debian and
works very well, so there is not even a need to fear the unknown
problems it might bring: we know what problems it brings - very few.
> > These can be verified either the archive server as part of package
> > acceptance, or by apt as an annotation in the sources.list.
> 
> Again, that's the main advantage I see from a new .*deb format: if these 
> restrictions are part of the format, they can be checked and enforced at all 
> steps in the process: dpkg-buildpackage would error out if there's a postinst, 
> lintian would add an error, the server would block it and dpkg would not 
> unpack the postinst, just because 'debian-binary' is 2.0-vdeb.
As for checking: the right way to think about this is as a security
and quality issue.  From a security point of view, the configuration
needs to be in the apt sources.list, because that is where the
authorisation happens on an individual system.  You will at least
initially be using a less-firmly-protected signing key for your new
archive, so you need to protect, as far as you can, users from
compromise of that key.  From a quality point of view a check in your
archive software is the right place.
The properties which are important for security are: a whitelist of
dpkg .deb features, to exclude maintainer scripts, triggers,
conffiles, etc.  A restriction on package names.  And a restriction on
paths.
In terms of code changes that means, I think, a new apt option to
enable the new behaviour, and probably a new dpkg option to implement
the checks.  If you get resistance from dpkg upstream, you can invent
a new checking tool and call that from apt at an appropriate point.
As for source package format:
> > OTOH we do not want to abandon the Debian source package format
> > completely because we have lots and lots of tools which understand it
> > well.
> 
> Although I share the sentiment, I see value in finding a suitable model for 
> the problem at hand, rather than massage our existing tools to fix the 
> problem, "just because" they are our existing tools.  I think we agree on 
> that.
If you use the existing source metdata format then existing Debian
users can use their existing Debian tools.  You may find that those
tools are too awkward of course - dgit-user(7) doesn't make for
particularly pretty reading.  More on this below.
> > Building should be done with "git clone" followed by
> > "dpkg-buildpackage -b" (or some suitable wrapper).
> 
> That's pretty much what I had in mind, yes.  I'm not even sure there's much 
> need for a complete traditional debian/ directory: iff the .vdeb ecosystem 
> does much less than normal .debs, we could aim for a single declarative .vspec 
> (yes, I know what you're thinking) file for instance.  Given we're tackling 
> wide consistent (hmm) ecosystems, a set of fine tools and very minimal 
> declarative packaging per-item could do it.
You have a choice to make about how to deliver the ecosystem-specific
build knowledge.
ISTM that your basic choices are:
 1. Source in your repo is identical to upstream source with no
    Debian-specific information.  Building is done by a new builder
    tool which autodetects the source ecosystem, and runs appropriate
    build rules (eg, by invoking dh).
 2. Source in your repo is *not* identical to upstream source.  It
    contains some files which are autogenerated by a converter tool,
    and perhaps some files which are manually added and maintained on
    your vdeb branch.  (Hopefully manually adding information will
    almost always be optional.)  Most of the build logic still lives
    in an out-of-per-package-tree builder tool, but the per-package
    tree specifies at least the source ecoysystem.
Analysing this:
In both cases you have two pieces of software: an ecosystem-specific
upstream import/merge tool for each ecosystem (which understands
upstream publication conventions), and some kind of new build tools.
Scheme (1) has the apparent virtue of great simplicitly in its model.
There is in most cases no need to maintain a separate vdeb branch
even.  However, any metadata which is not provided by uptsream in some
form cannot appear in the resulting binaries, so some things will have
to be fudged.
I think much of the simplicity is illusory - it comes from not solving
enough of the problem, and leaving the hard parts to be dealt with in
less convenient ways elsewhere:
In scheme (1) the import/merge tool only *finds* input git branches
and does not modify any source code.  The ecosystem is not formally
recorded, and the new build tool must therefore re-autodetect it.
(I'm assuming you would only want one new set of build invocation and
scheduling machinery!)
Worse, in scheme (1) your build-dependency information will only be
available in the source trees in ecosystem-specific formats.  So you
either your build scheduler and sbuild-a-like must have a suite of
per-ecosystem build-deps parsers, or you must maintain a shadow of the
build-dep information in a separate database (which the import tool,
or a robot somewhere, must update).
The suite of build-deps parsers, etc., could be made into a library,
but many of these ecosystems have a tendency towards metadata formats
parseable only by other tools within the ecosystem.  If you are trying
to make a common build arrangement, your common builder might have to
have a pet installation of every ecosystem.  You would be building
your own production build infrastructure on software which we can't
put in Debian proper because it's not stable enough.  Also it might
mean that building packages locally could require (perhaps several)
towering edifices even to get going.
In Scheme (2) the import/merge tool also writes metadata in a common
format into the git tree.  Ie, you commit some autogenerated files.
I realise this is an anathema in some circles but my experience is
that it works well.  git is a good distribution mechanism for mixtures
of handwritten files and easily-autoregeneratable ones.
Once you have bitten the bullet, in scheme (2), of having an
import/convert/merge tool which edits the code and commits some
autogenerated build machinery and rewritten metadata to your vdeb
source repos, it would be daft not to have that autogenerated build
machinery contain a debian/rules etc.
Or to look at it another way, in scheme (2) if you are autogenerating
and committing metadata which is converted from the upstream format,
you have to decide on your output format.  IMO it would be foolish to
design new metadata format when Debian already has a pretty good,
battle tested and highly flexible, source package metadata format.
The ability to reuse Debian's source metadata format is one of the
main advantages of scheme (2).  It allows you to use existing build
machinery.  You should not underestimate the value of this.  Debian
has invested a lot of time in tools like sbuild, dpkg-checkbuilddeps,
etc. etc.  If you make your thing incompatible you will have to
rewrite all of that.
There are some other wrinkles with (1): for example, in (1) the
changelog.gz in your .debs will have to be a completely useless stub.
In (2) your merging tool can write a changelog entry.  In (1) you will
always find that after building the tree has untracked unignored
files, because I doubt you will be able to find a way to build it that
does not create files that ought to be in a .gitignore but which
upstream haven't heard of; whereas with (2) you can have your
import/merge/convert tool write a suitable .gitignore.
Finally, whatever you do, do not dump a .vspec file into the root of
the package.
If you must invent a new format, use a subdirectory.  Originally
debian/rules was debian.rules and this was a serious mistake (luckily,
fairly easily corrected).  A subdirectory will provide you with
somewhere to extend your format, and also a place where you can put
temporary files which you can easily .gititnore (because your
subdirectory can have its own .gitignore).
Also, I would counsel against a single "spec"-type file format.  Such
things generate needless merge conflicts, and even mismerges.  They
can't be syntax highlighted easily.  You have to invent quoting rules
for the sections.  Automatically processing them is more work.  There
is a reason why in Debian we like to split things up into different
files - it's not just because we like to overcomplicate things.
But, really, you shouldn't invent a new metadata format unless you
actually need to.  And you don't.
As I argue above your source package format should either be
(1) upstream source, unmodified (with your new tools guessing each
time they need to look at it, and parsing upstream metadata directly);
or (2) Debian-format metadata.
I think (2) will be considerably less work as well as producing
something more useful and useable.
I hope you will take this as the constructive feedback I intend.
Regards,
Ian.