To : debian-devel@lists.debian.org
Subject : Question about Configuration Management covered at kali.training
From : Gerard Blokdijk <gerard.blokdijk@theartofservice.com>
Date : Mon, 5 Mar 2018 23:04:06 +0000
Message-id : 01000161f868633e-a0b93966-8218-4991-8ed0-33f9bcfe546d-000000@email.amazonses.com


Hi there,
		
My new book Configuration Management: Standard Requirements is out, get it here:
https://www.dropbox.com/s/86hqr1454ovgdqw/CM_Configuration_Management.pdf?dl=0
My goal is to get in front of anyone who will benefit from it. - perhaps you will be able to help more people with a link or an article.
I was searching for Configuration Management information and I came across kali.training, and had to reach out to you.
My name is Gerard Blokdijk, I've been in many enterprise data center management and CxO roles over the past 25 years, and spoken to thousands of people at public events and at companies in 23 countries.
And I'm an author.
I have just published my new book called 'Configuration Management: Standard Requirements'. Because I feel this is of interest to you, and to establish mutual ground, I want to give you the book. 
Something straightforward as 'Configuration Management: Standard Requirements' is the Configuration Management guide I wish I had when I needed it; a tool to help develop a detailed vision of all areas impacted by a Configuration Management implementation, and a useful tool for scoring readiness and implementation quality.
It highlights what's important now and in the future for the reader and delivers a Configuration Management roadmap to instantly understand and move forward in the right direction, based on verifiable data. 
7 Sample Requirements:
1. Is an asset management process(es) in place to inventory and manage this new asset (investment) from a property management perspective, to provide Configuration Management support, and to monitor system performance?
2. If a customer complains that service levels are below those agreed in the sla, apparently due to a number of related hardware incidents, who is responsible for ensuring the cause is investigated?
3. Are physical configuration assessments conducted to determine the degree of agreement between the current physical configuration and the configuration depicted in the facility documentation?
4. What percentage of user PCs and servers are included in a centralized software inventory/CMDB (configuration management database); which is populated by a software tracking tool?
5. Have the cis and the exact version or revision that constitutes a particular baseline (documents, source code, problem reports and change documents) been identified?
6. How do you do keep current with a continuously changing codeline, and also make progress without being distracted by your environment changing out from under you?
7. Has the organization established a security configuration management program that is consistent with FISMA requirements, OMB policy, and applicable NIST guidelines?
The book will be available at Amazon, Barnes and Noble and all major retailers later this month, the full info can be found at https://store.theartofservice.com/cm-configuration-management-standard-requirements/ right now.
You can read and download the PDF version of the book instantly here: https://www.dropbox.com/s/86hqr1454ovgdqw/CM_Configuration_Management.pdf?dl=0
Where you can see this possible, I would appreciate it if you would consider linking to https://store.theartofservice.com/cm-configuration-management-standard-requirements/ - This will help more people with finding the book. 
To make it easy you can use the critical criteria above as input and the following text (or use any text you like): The Art of Service's Configuration Management Standard Requirements Excel Dashboard and accompanying eBook is for managers, advisors, consultants, specialists, professionals and anyone interested in Configuration Management assessment. https://store.theartofservice.com/cm-configuration-management-standard-requirements/
Thanks in advance and if I can assist you with anything else, or return the favor, please let me know.
Gerard Blokdijk
Connect with me here: https://www.linkedin.com/in/gerardblokdijk
CEO
The Art of Service
https://theartofservice.com
gerard.blokdijk@theartofservice.com
https://www.linkedin.com/in/gerardblokdijk/ 
The U.S. Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) has included our Cyber Security Self Assessment on their Framework Industry Resources list since our Self Assessment is deemed qualified, accurate and comprehensive as a Guidance that Incorporates the Framework:  https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework/industry-resources
Other recent posts:
https://ctmfile.com/story/fraud-analytics-complete-self-assessment-guide-shows-how-to-tackle-fraud
http://www.inboundlogistics.com/cms/article/summer-reading-guide-2017/
https://inc42.com/buzz/54-cryptocurrency-success-criteria/
http://www.myfrugalbusiness.com/2017/10/disciplined-entrepreneurship-success-criteria.html
http://flarrio.com/artificial-intelligence-checklist/
http://blog.esker.com.au/customer-service-appreciation-week-how-are-you-doing/
https://cloudsmallbusinessservice.com/guest-posts/data-loss-prevention-quick-readiness-checklist-60933.html
https://pmlinksandbooks.com/linkpages/1.60References.htm
A Review of The Art of Service HR Analytics Complete Self-Assessment: Will This Excel Based, Offline Tool Help HR Analytics Implementation?
The Verdict: The HR Analytics Complete Self-Assessment package ticks a lot of checkboxes, especially for businesses testing the BI waters for Human Resource decision making and performance enhancement and for companies that can’t have a full-time data professional on payroll to guide the initial implementation of their HR analytics drive.
https://blog.cake.hr/honest-review-art-service-hr-analytics-complete-self-assessment-will-excel-based-offline-tool-help-hr-analytics-implementation/
A Review of The Art of Service Fraud Analytics Complete Self-Assessment: ‘Fraud Analytics: - complete self-assessment guide’ shows how to tackle fraud
This is a structured, in-depth review of how to review your current fraud position and how to work out how develop the controls and processes that will begin to solve the problem. Knowing what questions to ask is the starting point in fraud analytics. The level of questions and analysis required will surprise, but this level of details is essential as fraud is one of the biggest problems for corporates today. 
https://ctmfile.com/story/fraud-analytics-complete-self-assessment-guide-shows-how-to-tackle-fraud
Recent Testimonials:
Your book is interesting and contains timely topics. - Dianne L, Chief Learning Officer
I really like the format. Simple but quite powerful. I’ll make sure to share my views with Amazon. Thanks again. - Carl M., Senior Solutions Architect
I have gone through the array of your works and they are simply awesome! Great job you have been doing. - Kenneth O., MD/CEO, Emerging Media
Thank you, these are great! - Natalie F., Healthcare Information Technology Consultant
Thanks for this; a lot of work has gone into developing and producing this, I’m looking forward to using it in the coming weeks. - Dr Steven.B., Head of Information Security & Assurance
So far I've only had time to browse it very superficially, but form that it looks very comprehensive and at the same time practical. As soon as I find time I will do a short item on it on my literature pages and point risk management professionals in your direction. Have a great day, and all the best!! - Carsten B., Experienced safety and quality enabler
Thank you for the excel dashboard. It is so powerful. - Tahar H., Researcher at Institute of Economic Analysis and Prospective Studies
I have been looking at the document, and it is quite extensive. - Pengilly W., Director IT & Logistics at a leading University
Thank you, this is perfect -  I will certainly be recommending Self Assessment dashboards to all - I can't wait to tell my colleagues on Monday - Mel F., Change Management Professional
The Self-Assessment is a great tool to gather feedback and input from others, especially challenges, and things to watch out for. Very helpful! - Julie M., AWS Solution Architect
Honestly - at the extremely low outlay - the capacity to accelerate your journey, increase productivity and be a more informed buyer (when combined with what actual business problems you are trying to solve) I would be extremely hard pressed to not undertake it. - David S., Director Organisational performance
It is a pleasure to know about new tools to improve our performance. Let me congratulate to you about your new achievement. - Marta C, Cybersecurity and Antifraud Consultant
This is great! Thank you. Say, do you all do consulting or certification? - Ken W., Managing Director
Spot on, thank you. Will study your book to help my clients. - Walter H., Business Coach
Thanks for your service! That’s really appreciated! - Harry M., Enterprise Architect
Software quality is a topic that is very important for me right now, and it should be important for every team. This book contains a self-assessment that can be useful for your organization to find out where you currently are. If you struggle to ask the right questions about your testing efforts, this book will give many of them, and a way to score your answers. - David T., Software Consultant
Every high achiever has probably been criticized as a 'control freak' at some point. However, given the numerous daily distractions entrepreneurs encounter, if you want to do 'deep work' with broad-ranging impact, you have to control your time to make each day a masterpiece. Check Out The Art of Service's Self Assessments. - Brendan M. Principle Consultant
Standard Requirements is a straightforward guide. It is a tool to help develop a detailed vision of all areas impacted by an implementation, and a useful tool for scoring readiness and implementation quality. - Marietta W. Senior Consultant
I would love to have a conversation with you, at the moment I am preparing for our annual IT Conference, which I might add, we could have used you as a presenter! - June M. Vice President Information Technology, Human Resources and Administrative Services