To : debian-devel@lists.debian.org
Subject : Re: What can Debian do to provide complex applications to its users?
From : Pirate Praveen <praveen@onenetbeyond.org>
Date : Mon, 19 Feb 2018 22:34:25 +0530
Message-id : eee066d9-a56d-a0e8-ddf3-451ddf9e12aa@onenetbeyond.org
In-reply-to : <[ðŸ”Ž]Â 20180216151129.GB18296@home.ouaza.com>
References : <[ðŸ”Ž]Â 151879250395.15777.11687709733947019960.reportbug@x260-buxy.home.ouaza.com> <[ðŸ”Ž]Â 20180216151129.GB18296@home.ouaza.com>


On à´µàµ†à´³àµà´³à´¿ 16 à´«àµ†à´¬àµà´°àµà´µà´°à´¿ 2018 08:41 à´µàµˆà´•àµ, Raphael Hertzog wrote:
> - while gitlab is packaged in Debian, its packaging took years and the
>   result is brittle because it can break in many ways whenever one the 
>   dozens of dependencies gets updated to some new upstream version
>   (BTW salsa.debian.org does not use the official package)
I maintain complex packages like gitlab and diaspora and I agree about
the amount of work required. But the reason why library updates break
can be improved by two steps.
1. Enable functionality tests for all dependencies (we already have
pretty good test coverage and that should be increased).
2. Find out about possible breakages before the upload.
This can be achieved by using scripts like build-and-upload which runs
autopkgtests of all reverse dependencies and rebuilds all reverse
dependencies. Unfortunately use of this script is not wide spread yet
and we need to include it in a commonly used package like devscripts.
Many if the recent breakages could have been avoided if the uploaders
used this option.
3. When introducing a breaking change, we need to help upstreams to move
to the new version along with us. This is not different from how we
handle transitions, but the number of transitions will increase.
> I'm sure we are missing lots of good applications due to our requirements.
> What can we do to avoid this?
I think the situation regarding javascript have improved largely in last
two years. It took me more than 2 years to get handlebars in debian
because none of the build tools were packaged. Now with many common
build tools like grunt, gulp, webpack, rollup, babel etc packaged, the
effort required to package a new library has significantly reduced (a
complex library like react took only a fraction of time required for
handlebars). I believe this will encourage more people to start
maintaining javascript libraries as the barrier of entry has been
reduced significantly. Case before two years was reverse engineering the
build system using tools like sed, which is not the case now.
As for the number of packages to maintain is very large, I realized it
would be hard for me to maintain these long dependencies alone, so I
have been aggressively seeking and mentoring more people to maintain
packages. I have organized countless offline and online packaging
sessions. I have reasonable success (compared to the effort I put in)
and hope to continue those efforts.
We not only have to get more people to package, but since upstream is
not listening to us, we need to get more people to help with fixing
upstream compatibility issues too.
I have got some very good help from people like Shanavas, Jishnu, Aruna
and Harish to make upstream compatible with the library versions we have
in debian (moving handlebars to babel 6 and webpack 3, moving many
libraries to chai 4, adding global library support to grunt, etc to name
a few). They have been helping with node specific issue and got upstream
to accept pull requests. In other pending cases, even though they don't
help us, they are willing to take pull requests.
Also I have decided to package a module only if a at least two packages
depend on it, which will speed up the process and also reduce the load
on ftp masters (please help ftp masters review the long queue if you can).
See
https://salsa.debian.org/js-team/node-ava/tree/master/debian/node_modules
(some of those currently embedded there will need to be packaged
separately because they are generated files. But if a module is pure es5
and required only for one module it could be embedded. Also in newer
nodejs versions we may be able to do this with es6 modules too).
signature.asc