To : debian-devel@lists.debian.org
Subject : Lucas Kanashiro and Athos Ribeiro hijack my package
From : Rolf Leggewie <foss@rolf.leggewie.biz>
Date : Mon, 16 Apr 2018 08:28:08 +0800
Message-id : 57647978-536a-79dc-2e64-da01430b5692@rolf.leggewie.biz


Dear fellow maintainers, dear Lucas and Atheros,
I'd like to use this opportunity to relay my experiences with Lucas
Kanashiro (kanashiro@debian.org) and Athos Ribeiro
(athoscribeiro@gmail.com). TL;DR Going purely by my "interaction" or
rather the lack of it with them in the maintenance of gjots2, I have
some doubts they are fit to be DD or DM.
Let me be clear, I am not calling for Lucas Kanashiro to be stripped of
DD privileges, but I would certainly like to raise my objections if
Athos ever attempted to become DM or DD.  And I want to make sure that
Lucas' behaviour is documented and known in case of a repeat.
For many years, I have maintained gjots2 and a number of other packages
in Debian, I am DM.  Towards the end of March, totally out of the blue
Lucas and Atheros usurped maintenance of gjots2 from me without NMU, MIA
or any form of communication with me whatsoever.  I am very active, both
in Debian and Ubuntu, anything but MIA.  I have a working e-mail
account.  About a week ago I asked them to reverse their changes which
until today hasn't happened so I went ahead and did it myself now, doing
their clean-up work.
They might want to argue that gjots2 was poorly maintained and hasn't
seen an upload to unstable for years.  That still would not give them
reason to do what they did.  In fact, I have always taken my
responsibilities seriously.  There are good reasons there was no
upload.  If they had bothered to check the upstream bug tracker or the
upstream branch at
https://anonscm.debian.org/gitweb/?p=collab-maint/gjots2.git they would
have surely realized I followed upstream closely.  It was simply that I
was never satisfied with any of the upstream releases.  I have been in
contact with upstream about this via bug tracker and e-mail (many of
which bounced, so progress has been slow).  Even the latest upstream
release 3.0.2 does not work for me and thus I would not upload it to
unstable.  Agreed, gjots2 is not in good shape but it's not because of a
lack of effort from the Debian Maintainer.
Lucas and Atheros hijacked my package and then failed to clean up after
the mess they made despite being asked to do so.
Regards
Rolf
signature.asc