To : Debian BTS <submit@bugs.debian.org>
Subject : Bug#903320: debian-installer: drops ULA address after network setup
From : Raphaël Halimi <raphael.halimi@gmail.com>
Date : Sun, 8 Jul 2018 21:36:19 +0200
Message-id : 6544b7ee-afe4-d1e5-0001-4f86eea05994@gmail.com
Reply-to : Raphaël Halimi <raphael.halimi@gmail.com>, 903320@bugs.debian.org


Package: debian-installer
Version: stable
Tags: d-i ipv6
Hi,
I have a purely virtual bridge (no physical device attached to it) to
serve libvirt/QEMU/kvm virtual machines. I'm trying to implement an
IPv6-only test network.
On this network, hosts each get two addresses : a stateful ULA address
(served by DHCPv6), and an SLAAC global address (configured from plain
Router Advertisements only). Both prefixes are advertised by radvd. The
global prefix is provided from my ISP, and passed to the virtual network
through prefix delegation. The DNS server also has an ULA address inside
this prefix, and is only reachable through that address (the firewall is
configured to accept connections from addresses from the same prefix only).
This works well with a fully installed system: both addresses are
automatically brought up, and I can reach remote global addresses as
well as local ULA addresses (from this prefix or from other ones),
provided iptables allows the forwarding.
However, d-i behaves in a way that prevents it to run successfully in
this network. During the network setup, it does indeed get both
addresses, sets up routes accordingly, and also gets other settings from
the DHCP server (domain name, DNS server, etc etc). At this time, I'm
still able to ping remote and local hosts in the console.
But, after setting the host name and the domain name, for an unexplained
reason, d-i immediately drops the ULA address (it's noted in the log)
and keeps only the global address. This prevents the installation to
proceed afterwards (when the network is needed to download packages),
because although the Internet is still accessible, name resolution
doesn't work (since the DNS server drops packets coming from the global
address).
I also tried without advertising the global prefix with radvd, and
again, at the same point during the installation process, d-i removes
the ULA address (which leaves the system with only the link-local
address this time).
Note that I tried with Buster alpha 3 image too, and d-i behaves exactly
the same.
Regards,
-- 
Raphaël Halimi
signature.asc