To : "openstack-dev@lists.openstack.org" <openstack-dev@lists.openstack.org>, PKG OpenStack <openstack-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org>, Debian Developers <debian-devel@lists.debian.org>
Subject : The end of OpenStack packages in Debian?
From : Thomas Goirand <thomas@goirand.fr>
Date : Wed, 15 Feb 2017 13:42:51 +0100
Message-id : 663260f9-a812-f5e1-e368-43d2b509490f@goirand.fr


Hi there,
It's been a while since I planed on writing this message. I couldn't
write it because the situation makes me really sad. At this point, it
starts to be urgent to post it.
As for many other folks, Mirantis decided to end its contract with me.
This happened when I was the most successful doing the job, with all of
the packaging CI moved to OpenStack infra at the end of the OpenStack
Newton cycle, after we were able to release Newton this way. I was
hoping to start packaging on every commit for Ocata. That's yet another
reason for me to be very frustrated about all of this. Such is life...
Over the last few months, I hoped for having enough strengths to
continue my packaging work anyway, and get Ocata packages done. But
that's not what happened. The biggest reason for this is that I know
that this needs to be a full time job. And at this point, I still don't
know what my professional future will be. A company, in Barcelona, told
me I'd get hired to continue my past work of packaging OpenStack in
Debian, but so far, I'm still waiting for a definitive answer, so I'm
looking into some other opportunities.
All this to say that, unless someone wants to hire me for it (which
would be the best outcome, but I fear this wont happen), or if someone
steps in (this seems unlikely at this point), both the packaging-deb and
the faith of OpenStack packages in Debian are currently compromised.
I will continue to maintain OpenStack Newton during the lifetime of
Debian Stretch though, but I don't plan on doing anything more. This
means that maybe, Newton will be the last release of OpenStack in
Debian. If things continue this way, I probably will ask for the removal
of all OpenStack packages from Debian Sid after Stretch gets released
(unless I know that someone will do the work).
As a consequence, the following projects wont get packages even in
Ubuntu (as they were "community maintained", which means done by me and
later sync into Ubuntu...):
- congress
- gnocchi
- magnum
- mistral
- murano
- sahara
- senlin
- watcher
- zaqar
Hopefully, Canonical will continue to maintain the other 15 (more
core...) projects in UCA.
Thanks for the fish,
Thomas Goirand (zigo)
P,S: To the infra folks: please keep the packaging CI as it is, as it
will be useful for the lifetime of Stretch.